.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 2001 ... 2022 2023
.\"     John McCue <jmccue@jmcunx.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH LCASE 1 "2010-03-07" "JMC" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lcase - change case of characters in a text file
.SH SYNOPSIS
lcase [OPTIONS] [FILE...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Changes character case of data in a text file.
.PP
If no files (FILE) are specified on the command line or
if FILE has name "-", stdin (Standard Input) is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-e file
Errors written to the file specified, defaults to stderr.
.TP
-F
Flip (revert) character case.
Change uppercase characters to lowercase,
lowercase to uppercase.
.TP
-f
Force file create.
Create file even if the target file exists.
.TP
-h
Show brief help and exit.
.TP
-l
Change uppercase characters to lowercase,
this is the default action.
.TP
-o file
Write output to the file specified, defaults to stdout.
.TP
-U
Change lowercase characters to uppercase.
.TP
-V
output version information and exit.
.TP
Optional, Verbose Level.
Print information about the run,
default do not show run messages.
Can be specified multiple times,
each specification increases verbose level:
.nf
    Level  Meaning
    -----  -------------------------------------
    = 0    Do not show any messages, default
    >= 1   Show headings on stdout as each file
           is processed
    >= 2   Show I/O summary
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Best to use tr(1) if available on your system.
.PP
Processes one line at a time, assumes the file is a text file.
.PP
Note, if an error occurs while parsing command line
arguments, errors may NOT be written to the error file
supplied on the command line.
.SH BUGS
Do not know of any.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
none.
.SH ERROR CODES
.nf
0 success
1 processing error or help/rev displayed
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ed(1),
ex(1),
justleft(1),
rtw(1),
sed(1),
tr(1)
